Add SIP-12: Domain Resolution (#104)
MetaMask/SIPs: SIPS/sip-12.md

---
sip: 12
title: Domain Resolution
status: Draft
discussions-to: https://github.com/MetaMask/SIPs/discussions/103
author: Hassan Malik (@hmalik88)
created: 2023-07-18
---

## Abstract

This SIP proposes a new endowment, `endowment:name-lookup`, that enables a way for snaps to resolve a `domain` and `address` to their respective counterparts.

## Motivation

> Currently, the MetaMask wallet allows for ENS domain resolution. The implementation is hardcoded and limited to just the ENS protocol. In an effort to increasingly modularize the wallet and allow for resolution beyond ENS, we decided to open up domain/address resolution to snaps. A snap would be able to provide resolution based on a domain or address provided with a chain ID. The address resolution is in essence "reverse resolution". The functionality provided by this API is also beneficial as a base layer for a petname system. Resolutions can eventually be fed into the petname system and used as a means for cache invalidation.

Reviewer: "petname system" is unclear.

  It identifies a specific chain among all blockchains recognized by the CAIP standards.
  - `ChainId` consists of a `Namespace` and a `Reference`
    - `Namespace` - a class of similar blockchains. For example EVM-based blockchains.
    - `Reference` - a way to identify a concrete chain inside a `Namespace`. For example Ethereum Mainnet or one of its test networks.

- `AccountAddress` - The account address portion of a [CAIP-10](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-10.md) ID.

### Snap Manifest

This SIP specifies a permission named `endowment:name-lookup`.
The permission grants a snap the ability to expose an `onNameLookup` export that receives an object with `chainId` and `domain` OR `address` fields.

This permission is specified as follows in `snap.manifest.json` files:

```json
{
  "initialPermissions": {
    "endowment:name-lookup": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93"],
    }
  }
}
```

`chains` - An array of CAIP-2 chain IDs that the snap supports. This field is useful for a client in order to avoid unnecessary overhead.

### Snap Implementation

> Any snap that wishes to provide name lookup features **MUST** implement the following API:

Reviewer: This is just an example, it's not really a definition of the API.

```typescript
import { OnNameLookupHandler } from "@metamask/snap-types";

export const onNameLookup: OnNameLookupHandler = async ({
  chainId,
  domain,
  address
}) => {
  let resolution;
  if (domain) {
    const getAddress = (domain) => /* Get address */;
    resolution = getAddress(domain);
  } else if (address) {

>     const getDomain = (address) => /* Get domain */;

Reviewer: Do all name lookup systems support reverse lookup? Is it required for a snap to support this?

Reviewer 2: I don't think it should be required, a snap could just return null if it doesn't support it. Unless we want to specify it in the manifest somehow

Author: I'm not sure if they do, but if there is no reverse resolution returned from any snap, then we can just simply fallback to displaying the address wherever this reverse resolution is required.

>   let resolution;
>   if (domain) {
>     const getAddress = (domain) => /* Get address */;
>     resolution = getAddress(domain);
>   } else if (address) {
>     const getDomain = (address) => /* Get domain */;
>     resolution = getDomain(address);
>   } else {
>     return null;
>   }
> 
>   return { resolution };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (domain) {
    return { resolution: /* Get address... */ };
  }

  if (address) {
    return { domain: /* Get domain... */ };
  }

  return null;
```

Reviewer: This is not resolved yet @hmalik88.

Author: Sorry, missed this. Just pushed.

};
```

> The type for an `onNameLookup` handler function’s arguments is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type for an `onNameLookup` handler function's arguments is:
```

```typescript
type OnNameLookupArgs = {
  chainId: Caip2ChainId;

> } & ({ domain: string, address: undefined } | { address: string, domain: undefined });

Reviewer: This type is hard to read. Can it be split up into three types?

```

`chainId` - This is a [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md) `chainId` string.
The snap is expected to parse and utilize this string as needed.

`domain` - This is a human-readable address. If the `domain` property is defined, the request is looking for resolution to an address.

`address` - This is a non-readable address, this should be the native address format of the currently selected chain/protocol. If the `address` property is defined,
the request is looking for resolution to a domain.

The interface for the return value of an `onNameLookup` export is:

```typescript
type Domain = string;

type OnNameLookupResponse = {

>   resolution: AccountAddress | Domain;

Reviewer: This could allow for cleaner implementations:

```suggestion
  resolution: AccountAddress | Domain | null;
```

Then if you do something like this...

```ts
return { resolution: getAddress(...); }
```

...the `getAddress` function could return `null`. Now, you'd have to work around it like

```ts
const address = getAddress(...);
if (address) {
  return { resolution: address };
}

return null;
```

The permission grants a snap the ability to expose an `onNameLookup` export that receives an object with `chainId` and `domain` OR `address` fields.

This permission is specified as follows in `snap.manifest.json` files:

```json
{
  "initialPermissions": {
    "endowment:name-lookup": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93"],
    }
  }
}
```

`chains` - An array of CAIP-2 chain IDs that the snap supports. This field is useful for a client in order to avoid unnecessary overhead.

### Snap Implementation

Please see below for an example implementation of the API:

```typescript
import { OnNameLookupHandler } from "@metamask/snap-types";

export const onNameLookup: OnNameLookupHandler = async ({
  chainId,
  domain,
  address
}) => {
  if (domain) {
    return { resolution: /* Get domain resolution */ }
  } 
  
  if (address) {
    return { resolution: /* Get address resolution */ };
  }

  return null;
};
```

The type for an `onNameLookup` handler function's arguments is:

```typescript
type OnNameLookupBaseArgs = { 
  chainId: ChainId
}

type DomainLookupArgs = OnNameLookUpBaseArgs & { domain: string, address: undefined };

> type AddressLookupArgs = OnNameLookUpBaseArgs & { address: string, domain: undefined };

Reviewer: Is TypeScript able to infer the type from this now?

Author: Yes

type OnNameLookupArgs = DomainLookupArgs | AddressLookupArgs;

```

`chainId` - This is a [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md) `chainId` string.
The snap is expected to parse and utilize this string as needed.

`domain` - This is a human-readable address. If the `domain` property is defined, the request is looking for resolution to an address.

`address` - This is a non-readable address, this should be the native address format of the currently selected chain/protocol. If the `address` property is defined,
the request is looking for resolution to a domain.

The interface for the return value of an `onNameLookup` export is:

```typescript
type Domain = string;

> type OnNameLookupResponse = {
>   resolution: AccountAddress | Domain | null;
> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type OnNameLookupResponse = {
  resolution: AccountAddress | Domain | null;
} | null;
```

This SIP specifies a permission named `endowment:name-lookup`.
The permission grants a snap the ability to expose an `onNameLookup` export that receives an object with `chainId` and `domain` OR `address` fields.

This permission is specified as follows in `snap.manifest.json` files:

```json
{
  "initialPermissions": {
    "endowment:name-lookup": {
        "chains": ["eip155:1", "bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93"],
    }
  }
}
```

`chains` - An array of CAIP-2 chain IDs that the snap supports. This field is useful for a client in order to avoid unnecessary overhead.

### Snap Implementation

Please see below for an example implementation of the API:

```typescript
import { OnNameLookupHandler } from "@metamask/snap-types";

export const onNameLookup: OnNameLookupHandler = async ({
  chainId,
  domain,
  address
}) => {
  let resolution;
  if (domain) {
    const getAddress = (domain) => /* Get address */;
    resolution = getAddress(domain);
  } else if (address) {
    const getDomain = (address) => /* Get domain */;
    resolution = getDomain(address);
  }

  return { resolution };
};
```

The type for an `onNameLookup` handler function's arguments is:

```typescript

> type OnNameLookupBaseArgs = { 
>   chainId: ChainId
> }
> 
> type DomainLookupArgs = { domain: string, address: undefined };
> type AddressLookupArgs = { address: string, domain: undefined };
> 
> type OnNameLookupArgs = OnNameLookupBaseArgs & (DomainLookupArgs | AddressLookupArgs);
> 

Reviewer: May be more readable?

```suggestion
type OnNameLookupBaseArgs = { 
  chainId: ChainId
}

type DomainLookupArgs = OnNameLookupBaseArgs & { domain: string; };
type AddressLookupArgs = OnNameLookupBaseArgs & { address: string; };

type OnNameLookupArgs = DomainLookupArgs | AddressLookupArgs;
```

Author: Going to leave the `undefined` fields on the types because otherwise TS would complain.

Author: Going to leave the `undefined` fields on the types because otherwise TS would complain.

---
sip: 12
title: Domain Resolution
status: Draft
discussions-to: https://github.com/MetaMask/SIPs/discussions/103
author: Hassan Malik (@hmalik88)
created: 2023-07-18
---

## Abstract

This SIP proposes a new endowment, `endowment:name-lookup`, that enables a way for snaps to resolve a `domain` and `address` to their respective counterparts.

## Motivation

Currently, the MetaMask wallet allows for ENS domain resolution. The implementation is hardcoded and limited to just the ENS protocol. In an effort to

> increasingly modularize the wallet and allow for resolution beyond ENS, we decided to open up domain/address resolution to snaps. A snap would be able

Reviewer 3: Not critical but there are line breaks here that shouldn't be here

### Language

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" written in uppercase in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt)

### Definitions

> This section is non-normative, and merely recapitulates some definitions from [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md).

- `ChainId` - a [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md) string.
  It identifies a specific chain among all blockchains recognized by the CAIP standards.
  - `ChainId` consists of a `Namespace` and a `Reference`
    - `Namespace` - a class of similar blockchains. For example EVM-based blockchains.
    - `Reference` - a way to identify a concrete chain inside a `Namespace`. For example Ethereum Mainnet or one of its test networks.

### Snap Manifest

This SIP specifies a permission named `endowment:name-lookup`.

> The permission grants a snap access to a object with `chainId` and `domain` OR `address` fields in an `onNameLookup` export.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The permission grants a snap the ability to expose an `onNameLookup` export that receives an object with `chainId` and `domain` OR `address` fields.
```
Something like this maybe?

This permission is specified as follows in `snap.manifest.json` files:

```json
{
  "initialPermissions": {
    "endowment:name-lookup": {

>         "chains": ["eip155:1", "bip122:000000000019d6689c085ae165831e93"],

Reviewer 3: Can a snap provide lookups for any chain or does it have to provide an explicit list and only do lookups for the chains specified?

Author: It should provide an explicit list.

    }
  }
}
```

> `chains` - An array of CAIP-2 chain IDs that the snap supports. This field is useful to the extension to avoid unnecessary overhead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`chains` - An array of CAIP-2 chain IDs that the snap supports. This field is useful for a client in order to avoid unnecessary overhead.
```

  let resolution;
  if (domain) {
    const getAddress = (domain) => /* Get address */;
    resolution = getAddress(domain);
  } else if (address) {
    const getDomain = (address) => /* Get domain */;
    resolution = getDomain(address);
  } else {
    return null;
  }

  return { resolution };
};
```

The type for an `onNameLookup` handler function’s arguments is:

```typescript
type OnNameLookupArgs = {
  chainId: Caip2ChainId;
} & ({ domain: string, address: undefined } | { address: string, domain: undefined });

```

`chainId` - This is a [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-2.md) `chainId` string.
The snap is expected to parse and utilize this string as needed.

`domain` - This is a human-readable address. If the `domain` property is defined, the request is looking for resolution to an address.

`address` - This is a non-readable address, this should be the native address format of the currently selected chain/protocol. If the `address` property is defined,
the request is looking for resolution to a domain.

The interface for the return value of an `onNameLookup` export is:

```typescript
type Domain = string;

type OnNameLookupResponse = {

>   resolution: AccountAddress | Domain;

Reviewer 2: `AccountAddress` type is not specified

} | null;
```

### MetaMask Integration

> The resolution returned by the snap will be displayed in the send flow for those chains that have integrated UI for their send flow, which currently are EVM chains. The intention is for this to

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this part is relevant
